I would say even for professional
investors, doing nothing is
surprisingly often the right strategy.
Welcome back to another episode of WSJ's
Take on the Week. I'm Telis Demos
>> and I'm Gunjan Bannery.
>> This week we're dedicating our entire
episode to our guest interview. Our
guest is Cliff Aznes. He is the
co-founder and chief investment officer
of AQR Capital Management and he is one
of the world's foremost quant investors
and has done as much as anybody to bring
those ideas and products to to the
world. So, Cliff, welcome to the show.
>> Well, thank you for having me. That's a
wonderful start.
>> Cliff, I'm really excited for this
conversation. I I was telling you
before, I've been following the options
market here at the journal. Since I've
been at the journal for around 8 years,
and you know, back when I started, it
felt like no one was reading my stories.
No one cared about this this corner of
the market. And what we've seen the past
few years is options trading is cool on
Robin Hood. And there's been this surge
in options-based ETFs, you know, things
like buffer ETFs or hedged equity ETFs.
And there are $60 billion in hedged
equity funds tracked by Morning Star
today. It was half that just a few years
ago.
>> And the Morning Star category, I think
you wrote the other day, is north of
$230 billion these days. The options
trading related
>> funds.
>> It's blown up so much and and a lot of
these funds are promising to investors,
hey, we can protect you from a market
slide, right? When things like
Liberation Day happen, we will fall less
than the market. But it seems like they
haven't always worked that way.
>> Well, I consider my job to make it less
fun for you because I think there some
of these things have gone too far. Um,
single day options don't even start me
on. Nobody's ever needed that in
history. Um, the broker Sally knows are
laughing all the way to the bank. Uh,
but buffer funds, we've written a few
different pieces on this. I'm going to
talk in generalities. Every single one
is designed a little differently.
Everyone says we're going to do it this
way, but broadly speaking, you can think
of them as getting a basic stock market
exposure like S&P 500
>> and then trying to what's what the geeks
would call shape the distribution in
particular to modify some of the more
extreme events. I'm not going to torture
anyone with all the details, but the
most common is probably buying four
different kinds of options, puts and
calls in and out of the money, but at
its most simple, imagine you just bought
S&P and a put. Um, so you just cut off
the downside. You would lose a little
upside because if markets went up, you
lose the premium you paid, but at some
point if markets fell, the put would
kick in,
>> right? Because puts basically say, "Hey,
we will give you the right to sell
stocks at a specific price by a stated
date." They're supposed to be like stock
insurance.
>> So if the price is much lower than that,
you make money because you can still
sell it at the the higher price. Um
there are way to bet on a big downturn
to ensure against
>> a big downturn. But even before we
looked empirically, we in theory were, I
admit, a little cynical going in because
there are multiple reasons to expect
that buying a whole bunch of options to
protect a stock portfolio
might not be a great idea. You start off
with the most basic. You get paid an
equity risk premium to be in stocks
because they have some downside,
>> meaning that they return more than
>> cash and things like that.
>> Yes. on average they return more than
bonds, more than cash. Not all the time,
of course, that uh and that's somewhat
the point. Sometimes you have to suffer.
You have to always be a little
immediately cynical when someone says
you could have most of that without the
scary part because the scary part is
probably why you get paid. It's probably
why you know there is an equity risk
premium.
>> It's the price you pay for the stock
market returns, right?
>> Yes. It well put. Uh I'm going to say it
that way from now on. Um, and I think
it's pretty intuitive that in a well
functioning market, uh, if it were a
break even, everyone would want this.
You you'd say, "Hey, do do I want to
make money in the extremes a little
extra if on average it comes out?" I
think most people, you know, it's like
getting free insurance. Another way to
get a lot of the upside of stocks but
limit some of the downside is rather
trivial. Combine it with some cash. Um,
if you have 80% in the stock market and
20% in cash, um, this will be the only
math in our podcast, you get 80% of the
upside, um, but 20% of the downside is
is is reduced.
>> And by the way, that's how like grandma
and grandpa told you to invest, right?
like put a little in stocks and a little
in bonds and and
>> and basically there'll always be
exceptions when you're looking at lots
of funds, but the vast majority of of
buffered funds when compared to a very
simple straightup mix of an index fund
and cash didn't outperform it. They
underperformed it and didn't have
smaller draw downs. They had larger draw
downs.
>> So another flavor of these funds is the
equity hedged funds and I do think this
is kind of a disaster. I believe you
guys looked at a slice of equity hedged
funds with at least five years of
performance and found that the majority
failed to deliver either better returns
or less severe draw downs than a
portfolio of cash and stocks. You know
that's that is not a great showing.
>> I have very little to add to your
comment. You nailed it. They um they
again um there was pro I forget the
numbers. Um there were probably a couple
that did that did well. if you test a
hundred things um and 90 are bad um are
the 10 that are good really good or is
it just you know something's going to
get lucky
>> but by and large um it's it's a bad bet
to go down this this route I you know if
I were given advice to someone in my
family who was nervous about the stock
market or thought they had too much
either strategically or tactically I say
sell some stocks real simple uh don't
get this this is too cute by half is
another way to put it. The really scary
scenario for an equity investor is not a
short sharp crash that largely reverses.
It's a grinding bare market.
Um it's, you know, in the extreme it's
the GFC. In less extreme, it's 2022.
>> GFC being 2008, 2009.
>> Yeah.
>> That crash.
>> Exactly. Uh the global financial crisis.
a grinding slow but never crashing bare
market.
That's I think the worst scenario for an
option-based strategy because options to
the extent that that the strategy would
ever excel, it excels in really big
moves because options start to do better
as the extremes get bigger.
A grinding bare market, you never get
that extreme move and options premiums
tend to go up and up and up because in
bare markets insurance becomes more
expensive. We think not only has the
record not been particularly good, uh,
but there are scenarios out there where
stocks plus cash would dominate it by
even more. So I I I won't mince words.
We recommend against buffered funds.
>> And is that partly because, you know, I
mean, the way I think most of us are
taught to invest is is some version of
dollar cost averaging, right? which is
like if you just invest a little bit all
the time over the course of many years,
you pay more for stocks during those big
bubbly markets and then you pay less for
them during those grinding bare markets
and they sort of balance themselves out,
right? When should an investor think
about doing something different? When
does it make sense to just deviate from
that and and look for a product that
either offers some form of insurance or
some uncorrelated return? Like when when
does it make sense to deviate? Oh, well
now the second one is something I sell,
right?
>> So I I feel very differently about that.
>> Okay.
>> Um that won't be too self- serving, I'm
sure.
>> I mean, we asked you on the podcast, so
here we are.
>> When to hedge really, you know, it's
it's kind of a smart sounding way to say
when to time the market, right?
>> Right. That's such a good point
>> because a hedge is, you know, if you
have a hedge on all the time, you're not
timing the market. You're building a
buffered product. But if you're doing it
sporadically, you're timing the market.
And you know there I have great cynicism
that the average investor should be
trying to time the the market. Um
there'll always be someone who gets it
right. Um you know in some cases I don't
>> and they'll brag about it like on Reddit
and
>> the world's very good at expost finding
the few people who got it right and
telling you that they're the next
geniuses. I I I think I've been been on
the the good and the bad side of this PR
over time. It's it's one's more fun than
the other, but both are are silly. So I
I don't think for the average investor
there's really ever a time I would I
would say time the market and certainly
not to hedge the short term. I do
believe that very long-term returns kind
of 10-year returns are higher when
markets are cheap versus history and and
lower when markets are more expensive
versus history. Doesn't always work.
Even over 10 years it could be wrong.
Um, and even there you don't seem to add
a a lot of value. Very often if markets
are expensive, the rational prediction
is they'll make kind of half of what
they normally make. I will now in a very
different sense of the word hedge a
little bit. We do believe in trend
following strategies. Those do take
market positions and you could call that
a form of market timing. Uh, but they're
based on an actual empirical
relationship that when this happens,
this usually happens. I think the
average investor out there um when
they're nervous, they they might
actually be wanting to do the opposite
of what they're feeling, but if they
just do nothing, I'll be happy. I think
that's that's pretty good. That's a win.
>> I mean, I'm pretty good at doing
nothing. That's that's sometimes my
favorite thing to do.
>> Can be extremely hard.
>> Um doing nothing because the temptation
stuff's going on and people are telling
you, you're getting all kinds of advice
uh in scary times. And I would say even
for professional investors, doing
nothing is
surprisingly often the right strategy.
Like for someone like us, it's like if
there's a tough period, you want to make
a change to your process.
>> Yeah.
>> Every once in a while you discover, hey,
you know, we learned something. Maybe we
should tweak. I think most of the time
anyone ever does that, um, they're
almost perfectly wired to make an error.
And sticking with what we do, sticking
with our process has occasionally been
hard, but I think we've been successful
at it. And we've come out the other side
making well more back than we ever lost
in those events. And had we caved in the
wrong direction, it would have been very
bad. So doing nothing in this case is
white knuckled terror for about a a
year. So you don't feel like you're
doing nothing, but you're not doing
anything reactive and stupid in the
portfolio.
>> Circling back to what we started to talk
about before, which is we've been
talking about the dangers of hedging, of
trying to like insure yourself against
outcomes, but your business is is about
finding uncorrelated returns. So what's
the value for someone thinking that well
if I just stick with S&P 500 I'm doing
great. What's the value of thinking now
about those uncorrel even if hedging is
not the right thing to do? Why is
looking for something uncorrelated
a good kind of anytime strategy?
>> First I'm I'm going to just hypothesize
a good alternative. Okay,
>> we often strive for true true zero
correlation, but it doesn't have to be
>> correlation just briefly like when
something goes up this thing goes down
or doesn't go up things that don't
>> I would say uncorrelated means if you
tell me this thing is up or down it's no
information about this other one. Uh
negatively correlated is a hedge.
Negatively correlated is it moves the
opposite. But imagine you found
something and for us it might look like
long 1500 stocks in the world around the
world, short 1500 stocks in a balanced
way. So if you do that well, you're not
particularly correlated to the market.
And if you do that well, and I'm I'm
just assuming we're doing this well at
this point, your longs on average, not
all the time, but on average um
substantially beat your shorts. That is
always valuable to a portfolio to be
able to add an uncorrelated return. And
the math just says, "Yeah, you would do
that if the stock market is so insanely
great that any dollar taken out of that,
even if the uncorrelated return makes
10% a year, if you took it out of the
stock market making 5% a year, there is
a pretty decent chance you've lowered
your total return
but reduced your volatility." And this
gets to your comment before which I've
said before that you've improved your
riskadjusted returns but you can't eat
riskadjusted returns. There are simple
ways around that. If you for instance
just equitize the alternative meaning
take some money out of stocks put in
alternative but that alternative you
really think of as the the uncorrelated
long short fund but then you add an S&P
future on top. You're not doing that
because you tactically want that in the
alternative. you're doing that just to
replace what you took it out of. Then
you are simply adding and then if the
uncorrelated alternative goes up, it's
just gravy. The numerator goes up. So I
think there are lots of ways to design
this to to fix it. But I do think on
average we've been in a pretty unique
environment. Um US large cap equities,
they've crushed bonds, they've crushed
equities around the world, you know,
>> not Pokemon cards.
>> Okay. Okay. There are some exceptions.
Uh though I think the capacity for us
all to invest in Pokemon cards is
probably probably limited. When that
happens I it drives me crazy when people
say diversification didn't work. I I I I
get really geeky and I go, "Oh, sure it
did. It just worked for different
people." You know, you have a US large
cap perspective. Uh anyone not from the
US, for instance, found diversification
work like a charm. Diversification
always works. It just doesn't always
work for everyone at the same time. So
if you're in a unique environment and
again if if 15 years ago anyone told us
the US would crush the world and by the
way a lot of that has come from what's
called multiple expansion the US has
outgrown the world so some of the
performance you can call organic you
know real stuff that you don't have to
ever give back but a lot of it has come
from the US going from cheaper than the
world at least 25 years ago was cheaper
I don't know about 15 years yeah
>> to more expensive than the world now and
that's a great way to outperform form
it's just revaluation but expecting that
to happen again from instead of starting
cheaper from starting more expensive
seems very naive so for a pure US large
cap investor there were ways to do it
smart again equization where um where
diversifying still would have helped the
top line but it was a tough time in
general cuz it beat everything if you
didn't get cute with that stuff you
probably diversified into something that
maybe improved your risk adjusted but
not your total
returned. I think um people looking at
that are fighting the last war.
>> Um I think the US is great. I'm a
believer in a lot of US exceptionalism.
Um but at substantially more expensive
than the entire world, um do I think
it's going to radically outperform? Um
even if it doesn't regress to the mean,
even if you don't forecast those
valuations come back down, all they have
to do is not expand again. and you want
diversification again because it won't
crush the world by the same by the same
amount. So I think diversification's
all frankly always something I'd
recommend but I I I feel better about it
now for a US investor than than normal.
>> We'll be back with more with Cliff as
the chief investment officer at AQR
Capital Management.
Cliff, I really want to take a little
bit of time to talk about efficient
markets. I think we've spent quite some
time talking about how much markets have
changed the past few years, right? And
you've written about how with social
media, derivatives trading, you know,
one day options, technology changes. You
think markets have gotten less
efficient. Tell us why.
>> Yeah, and I should start out saying this
feels a little heretical for me. My
guess is
>> you're a Chicago school guy
>> and and a guy named Gene FMA who is the
godfather of the efficient markets
hypothesis Nobel Prize winner but
I probably think the market is less
efficient than than he does and I've
moved on that in the last call it 25 30
years to be fair to Jean Gan tells his
class which I I took three times I
didn't fail it I was the TA for the next
two years okay
>> um about somewhere around the third week
he tells the class they're almost
assuredly not perfect. Perfection is a
fairly insane hypothesis. So right there
it's it's it's like some bad old jokes.
All right, we've already established it
and now we're just bargaining.
>> You talk about why you think markets
have gotten less efficient
>> because and it feels contrarian to me to
say that because we we we know that you
know people look at satellite pictures
of parking lots so they know what the
foot traffic of a store is going to be
before it reports earnings. short-term
getting information into stocks, I think
markets probably have gotten more
efficient for the reasons you cite. Um,
so I don't deny that technology and the
speed of trading and whatnot has made
markets in that sense more timely if you
want to use efficiency in in in that
way. And then what we were talking about
before a valuation trade where are these
stocks are these thousand stocks
reasonably priced against these thousand
stocks when you sort them? Technology
has very little to do with that. How
fast you trade, how cheap you trade.
This is about behavioral biases. This is
about market structure changes. And my
two favorite
hypotheses, and I have to admit they're
hypotheses. The weaker one, I think, but
one I still like is one you've heard a
million times, the rise of passive
investing. Um, I am not a a fanatic
about this. There are there are people
who think passive investing is the devil
and is destroying the world. Um, but I
absolutely acknowledge something that
many people have looked at. Um, it's
kind of obvious. We can't all be passive
investors. So, I find it pretty easy to
believe that more people doing passive,
fewer looking at stocks and actually
trying to evaluate their prospects could
loosen the bounds of rationality and
make us deviate bigger and more.
That's actually my second favorite
hypothesis. My first and here I know I
sound like an old man on his lawn
yelling at clouds. This is I'm I'm Abe
Simpson here. Social media 247 online
gamified trading uh the whole ecosystem
of all these things. It started out um
in the dotcom bubble with what it were
called message boards, which again would
probably be before your time, but this
was like proto social media, but it was
a big part of that bubble, which it's
funny because it makes me think I might
be on to something here. And here I I'll
get a little dark here because I start
with our politics and I'm not going to
make a a politically partisan statement.
I'm going to make a statement. I think
most people, not everyone, would agree
with that. The social media environment
has probably made our politics worse.
Has probably polarized us more, put us
more into our own bubbles where we only
see self-reinforcing things, has
enforced a mob has has encouraged a mob
mentality. Well, one thing about stocks
is
stocks are are are priced by a voting
mechanism. It's not an arbitrage
mechanism. It's never an arbitrage to
short a overly expensive or buy a cheap
stock. It's a bet. Um it could work out
against you. The cheapest stock in the
world could deteriorate so much that it
was a bad buy. You know, you know,
famous falling knives, the most
expensive stock in the world, could turn
out to actually be the next Nvidia. And
it turned out that paying a 2,000p for
that was actually not such a bad idea.
So, it's not riskless.
You vote. the more votes that go one
way, the higher the stock price goes. Uh
but if if this environment has poisoned
our voting mechanisms in politics, why
would it not affect our markets? And
it's cheating to look at the most
extreme example uh that makes your case,
and I'm about to cheat. Um take the meme
stocks,
>> which are they're back this year.
>> Yeah,
>> they are.
>> They are. They are. It's not quite as
nuts as it was, but and they're
different stocks. Um, but the meme
stocks are completely online mob
phenomenon. Doesn't mean one of them
won't work out. Again, I do think the
meme stocks are unfair in the sense
that, you know, there a lot of I
wouldn't call Nvidia a meme stock. They
make a ton of money. They may be worth
what they are,
>> but I would say I would call Palunteer
Tesla meme stocks. I think the meme
stocks have evolved past this tiny group
of unprofitable companies.
>> They're on further on the spectrum. meme
stocks. These are stocks that have a
very meme-l like component where they're
a little cultish. Um, so I actually I
net agree with you. Um, again, I'm using
the most extreme example, but you did a
wonderful thing. I was about to say the
rest of the market is a point on a
spectrum. Palanteer makes money. Uh
Tesla makes money. You You can't call
them that. But are they on the spectrum
to that where they're a little cultish
and driven by a mob of people who feel
so strongly and will shout you down.
Yeah.
>> And call you terrible names if you
disagree.
>> Yeah. So I do think these things have
made markets
>> maybe maybe not on average every day
more inefficient
but maybe more susceptible to bouts of
extreme inefficiency where the world
just goes somewhat mad. I want to drill
down on that because I've I've followed
I think one day options, right? Trades
that expire within minutes or hours.
They have been one of the hottest crazes
in markets of the past few years. Why
don't you think they're a good idea?
>> Um I think if you back out what you're
paying for those options in terms of,
you know, the implied volatility, what's
what's a likely outcome where it gets
paid, I just think they're going to be
very bad deals. They're very, you know,
their popularity can be summed up with
FanDuels is very popular, too. And the
average, I promise you, the average
player on FanDuels loses because
FanDuels makes money. It's pretty easy
to figure out. And I don't think single
day options are really any different. I
think the people who sell them are doing
pretty well, and I think the people who
buy them, like all gambling, there are
fabulous success cases, right? and
everyone posts there. I bought it was
one day thing and went through the roof.
>> Um,
we don't deal with that. We deal with
averages when we're given advice. If you
assume you're the best in the world at
something, more power to you. You'll
probably do well.
>> Yeah.
>> But if you assume you're average,
these are bad ideas. You're paying too
much. You're you're making Wall Street
some version of Wall Street rich and
yourself poorer. So all these trends,
right, the gamblification of traditional
financial markets, I I think they're set
to grow more extreme. You can literally
place sports bets on Robin Hood right
now, you know?
>> Yeah, they're merging, right? You can do
your stock, crypto, and sports bets all
in the same
>> in the same place. What does that mean
for for financial markets? Does that
mean these moves might get more extreme?
>> They might. Markets equilibrate.
geeky for return to some form of
rational on their own. It's just a
question of how long and how painful it
takes. The old Warren Buffett in the
short run the market's a voting machine.
In the long run, it's a weighing
machine. What he's saying is, yeah, what
I said that it's a it's a political
process and it's voting is right about
prices today, but ultimately truth wins.
Do not ask me to tell you when. We don't
try to trade when we include both
valuation, quality, and momentum in our
model. So, we're trying to have the best
of all worlds. Uh so, we're not trying
to time this to the second. But for all
the kind of scary things I've said, I
will say particularly with new
technologies, I think there's often a
curve where the world goes a little nuts
with them for a while and eventually
learns how to deal with them more
rationally. The question is, you know,
how much damage is done between now and
and and and my predicted return to the
promised land of a of a of a more
rational never perfectly rational
market.
>> I don't I don't see brokerages or Wall
Street pulling back on these technology
changes that have occurred and you can't
undo them at this point.
>> Hopefully, someone will ever trade with
me again when I say bad things about
Wall Street. Um, Wall Street's job is to
sell you uh they're it's like a they're
like a car lot. They're there to sell
you new and used stocks. Um, they
sometimes package them into very
interesting things like um but they will
sell these as long as there are buyers.
There's never going to be the case where
Wall Street's going to go, you know,
we've been really successful selling
these for the last 5 years. We made a
ton of money, but frankly, the investors
are having subpar performance, so we're
going to pull back. I wish we were in
that world. I do believe I'm going to
brag that if AQR had a product where we
were like finally convinced. We wouldn't
do it if we if it didn't wouldn't take
us a lot to convince us it wasn't good,
we would never have started to begin
with. But ultimately, if we think, you
know, we're just not good at this, I
think we'd stop. I don't think Wall
Street is wired for that. So, it has to
come from disappointed investors who
slowly, you know, people said the same
thing about every bubble. the.com
bubble. People could not see how it
could ever end. It kept going up. It
kept going up. People are like, "It's
the future." And then we got to a point
where people were burning through cash
in these companies. Um cuz a lot of like
like uh new companies need a ton of cash
to get to get going. We could see
something like that happen again where
eventually you just run out of money. Um
so I don't know the precise form. I do
know it won't come from the street
charitably saying, "No, we're going to
stop this. It's not it's it's it's not
good for you." You know, it's like a
restaurant saying, "We're going to only
serve you really lousy tasting healthy
food." Um, unless you're explicitly a
health restaurant, most restaurants
would go out of business doing that. And
I don't think the street's going to do
that. And I, you know, I'm being cynical
about them. I don't think it's
necessarily their job. They're brokers.
They're not investment advisors. They're
not telling you everything they're
offering you is great. They're saying,
"Here's the bet. If you want to take the
bet, take the bet." I am simply advising
people they probably shouldn't be taking
that bet. So, I don't even want to be as
critical as I'm sounding. Um, all I can
tell you is the deeply unsatisfying this
will end. Um, or at least we'll abate. I
don't know if people in the audience
should take away the idea though from
this that you're saying that people
should run away from risk, right, or
volatility. In fact, you wrote recent,
you've been critical of vehicles that
kind of mask volatility from people when
people try and think they're hiding from
it.
>> And you wrote recently, you said,
>> "I'm advocating for it." Lean into
volatility is the motto uh of that
particular piece you were writing. So,
why should embrace investors embrace
volatility, but how do they avoid some
of the pitfalls you've been talking
about here? The way most of the world
makes their money is markets going up
over time. So if there's still a
positive premium, the more volume you
take in that, the more you will make
long term. If you take too much that you
can't take it, that you have to get out
at a low, you've taken too much.
>> Uh but volatility, it's the price of
admission. It's what you accept to get
the upside. So I'm certainly not anti-
volatility.
>> Um what I wrote recently was about alts
in particular, uncorrelated
alternatives. One criticism and we were
we were talking around this a little
before. One criticism of alts which has
some bite to it is they again they can
improve the risk adjusted return but not
the top line. Um I
I suggested then equitizing them which
also works. Another thing you can do is
be more aggressive in your alt. If you
do double the alt you'll have double the
swings. You have to be able to tolerate
that, but you can get it probably to a
point where it does move both the top
line and possibly reduce the the the
bottom line. And you know, as long as an
investor does that with open eyes and
knows what they're doing,
>> I I think that's a tool to be able to
take more volatility.
>> We're going to take one last break and
then we have a final question for Cliff.
President Trump has advocated for
getting rid of the requirement to report
quarterly earnings and proposed moving
to a six-month model instead. What do
you think of his proposal?
>> I um this is a hard one because my
instinctive reaction is not to like it.
Um because it feels a little like what
we've been talking about with volatility
laundering. Um you know, things will
look less less crazy. There's there's a
great uncertainty about whether this
would make things calmer or less calm
because people think quarterly stuff
makes things less calm. But the stakes
are raised if it's every six months.
Suddenly that number that on a quarter
can drive things. You're going to learn
a lot of new information. Um though I
have to be intellectually try to be
intellectually honest. There's no magic
to a quarter. We made that up in in the
past. Um, if you told me that the right
number is monthly and we should make
this a more prefuncter thing that no one
gets too razed about or you can make it
annual,
again, there's no proof. I personally
prefer more information to less. So, I
don't love it. Um, I think I I think the
motivation on it is to get closer to the
private world just like ju just like
there's a move to put privates in 401ks.
There's a move there's a movement to
show less crazy just to damp it all. And
I don't like that because I like closer
to truth. But this is not the hill I'll
die on because I have no theoretical
world that says quarterly was right and
and everything else is wrong. I do think
the general knock of short- termism,
which is part of the argument against
quarterly, I think that's overdone. Um
like the most expensive stocks in the
world today are not short- termism.
there because people think they're going
to do this over the next 10 years.
>> We often talk about how their quarterly
reports don't even seem to matter to the
trajectory of this.
>> Um so I you know I think short- termism
is generally uh overdone. I still think
the stock market is mostly focused on on
long-term. It'll react to short-term
information. Um but it's part of a
discounting process of what they think
the next 30 years will look like. So I I
can't get my back too too up on it. I
probably wouldn't change it. But of the
many things out there that if I I were
um the demigod in charge of markets and
got to set the rules, this would not be
high on my list. I would I I'd be okay
with it.
>> And lastly, what do you think is the
biggest risk to markets right now?
>> Um
I don't know. The the I'm not a monetary
economist, but I think the Fed has at
least a mild bind right now. Economy on
some on some things I think is
definitely at least a little slowing. Um
I'm not a doom and gloomer. I I won't
say it's, you know, we're about to to to
fall off a cliff, but we see a little
slowing and inflation is still at the
high end of the range they want. Um, my
my personal guess is they cut a little
bit next time. We don't trade on this.
We're not Fed watchers. I could be
totally wrong about this and we could do
very well or I could be totally right
and we could have a lousy period. This
is not how we make our money. So, this
is purely me. Um, but I don't think they
can do very much when inflation's still
at the high end of of their range. So,
that's a little scary. My biggest worry,
uh, um, is probably, you know, some of
the things we've been talking about.
There is a lot of froth. There is, you
know, the thing you and I talked about
about how this ends. It will end, but
how it ends. And the old Robert Frost,
some things end in fire and some things
end in ice.
Financial things could be the same. Some
things end with long slow lower returns
than you expected.
Some things end in a conflration and no
one knows how to forecast that. So when
we have the world that we've been
talking about this whole time of mob
psychology and and bigger moves, maybe
you have a slow air out of the balloon,
but maybe not. And I'm not making big
bets on this myself, but I do find it a
little frightening.
>> Right. what what's happening in the
political world is echoing what's going
on in the financial world.
>> So far, if anything, I've been shocked
how little, aside from liberation day
and the aftermath on how little some of
the volatile politics around the world
has affected markets. I I actually think
most of that is actually fairly
rational. I think politics actually
matter less to company earnings, which
is ultimately what's going on, than
sometimes people think. But
historically, they do react to it. Um,
so you know, maybe I could view this as
a positive that that in this sense maybe
they're getting more rational. Uh, but
it also feels a little weird um that
they're acting different on that front.
It feels a little like they're just
whistling past stuff.
>> Cliff, this has been so fun. Thank you
for joining us.
>> Oh, thank you. I really enjoyed it.
>> Yeah, this is great.
[Music]
>> Well, actually, it's funny.
A few weeks ago, we were prepping for um
a podcast episode and Telus was like,
"Did you see Cliff's tweet on Fartcoin
was a while ago?"
>> Yeah, maybe it was more than a few weeks
ago.
>> Had some fun. Um the very fact that the
world is so weird that they have people
like me discussing something called
fartcoin.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> They've achieved something.
>> It's a legitimate like financial right
like it's worthy of coverage in the Wall
Street
>> and the bad jokes just write themselves.
Um, you can just fart them out. Yeah, I
say so.
>> Moving on.
>> Yes.
[Music]